---
layout: post
title: Who I Am
description: A short biography<br />A detailed perspective
image: assets/images/about-me.jpg
nav-menu: true
---

<h2>Growing and Learning</h2>

I'm a caring and curious thinker. I have been from the moment I was born, and likely will be until the day I die. I tend to be private, though naturally, I can't remain completely private anymore. You need to know who I am before you can make up your mind about me, and I want to respect the time that you're giving me right now.

Much about my early life was full of change. My family moved all over the country, since my father was serving in the military. I experienced a variety of economic lifestyles, from poverty to secure middle-class living. I also experienced a variety of home dynamics. Sometimes, my home life was relatively calm and pleasant. Other times, it was almost unbearable, to the point that all I could think about was getting away. The happy and painful memories I made are as many and varied as they are intense. From my earliest recollections, though, I remember loving my family very much, and wanting from the depth of my heart for everyone to be fulfilled and at peace. School became my way of trying to make my parents proud. I was always curious about everything, and I could easily spend hours studying about whatever topic happened to catch my attention. My teenage years saw me graduating from high school early in 2006, and I immediately set out to tackle college with the same drive and tenacity that got me through my studies before.

In university, I studied a variety of topics and changed majors a couple times. Biology, philosophy, psychology, and sociology all utterly fascinated me. But, I needed to keep my financial future in mind, and so ultimately settled on a dual major of Computer Science and Criminal Justice Studies, the latter being a component of my instutition's pre-law program. This included an internship with a remarkably large and effective public defender's office. I spent a total of 10 years in college, graduting in 2016. Throughout this time, I worked low-paying jobs as a fast food worker, as an assistant martial arts instructor, as a student worker in various campus roles, and as a government clerk. I don't think I was ever paid more than $10.50 an hour, and I spent the majority of this time earning around $8.25. As I worked these jobs, I noticed the profound weight of earning so little while the cost of living was, even back then, comparatively high. By this point, my family was already financially secure. So, even after I moved out of my parents' home, help was always just a phonecall away, should I have ever needed it. Between that and my (perhaps unhealthy) obsession with cutting my own living costs wherever possible, I managed a modest existence while keeping familial assistance to a minimum. But, it never left my mind just how many other people didn't have the advantage of a financially stable family, like I had. With as much stress and tension as I felt about my situation, I could easily imagine just how much worse it was for others who lived without that benefit. If it weren't for my family, I flat out wouldn't have been able to afford living without at least one other roommate to help with bills.

<h2>Professional Insights</h2>

When I eventually started working as a Software Development contractor, the difference in my entire existence was... a little overwhelming. Going from a peak of $10.50 an hour to $28.50 an hour utterly redefined my life. Immediately, some of my most pressing concerns disappeared. Not long after I started making good money, I found myself moving back to Texas, buying a home in Morris County where I've lived for the past 5 years. Because of this sudden financial stability, I was able to finally begin taking care of problems that, up until that point, had gone unaddressed for years. For the first time, it really sunk in just how oppressive and traumatizing my prior poverty really was. Before long, I also began thinking about just how many others were still trapped in poverty, whereas I got lucky and escaped. I also began thinking about how, if nothing was done, many Americans would spend their entire lives without ever breaking free. This led to a period of my life that left me both deeply relieved, yet also deeply troubled. 

One of the biggest reasons for those conflicting feelings? Despite making substantially more money, I was actually working... less. Less often. Less hard. Just working all around <b>less</b>. For <b>more</b> money. Over the next several years, I encountered coworkers who had never lived as poorly as I or others I knew growing up. Some of them had never been exposed to poverty, period. These were often people who believed poverty was predominately a choice, or a sign of some inherent flaw within a person. These were also often people who sincerely believed that they were working harder than those who were earning less than they were. As for me and the others in the office who'd actually had to live on poverty wages in jobs that worked us to the bone... well, we knew better.

This wasn't universal, of course. I don't think it was even necessarily the opinion of the majority of office workers at or above my pay level. But, it was a lot more than I ever would have expected, considering the very real alternative that so very many other people lived through on a daily basis. Some of these people were software developers, like me. Others were advertising leads. Project managers. Domain experts. Executive officers. Attorneys. Chief administrators. Mostly people earning vastly more than the ordinary Texan, whose median wage clocks in at around $19.60 per hour. Often people who'd never had to work a truly hard job ever in their lives.

One of the other big reasons for my mixed feelings of relief and guilt at my improving situation? The realization that companies throughout the country are specifically structured have a great deal of low-paying positions. I had dozens of conversations with a variety of HR personnel, accountants, department heads, and other employees throughout projects I performed with several different companies over the years. That's how I learned the hard truth: even if everyone in America got a degree for a high-paying role and was genuinely competent for it, somewhere between 20% to 40% would still be forced into low-paying poverty jobs. Most companies are inherently organized to pay a big chunk of their workers next to nothing, all so that an incredible amount of money can be diverted to shareholders, top-level leadership, and upper-level technical roles, instead. If all of America is working every available job in the country, the only possible way for <b>anyone</b> to advance their economic situation is to hope for someone above them to leave a better position, and then hope that they can take the opening before anyone else. That's the only option.

This means that the 20% to 40% of Americans working those poverty jobs are, in effect, <b>trapped</b>.

<h2>The Reason I'm Here</h2>

For years, I've been aware of this. Yet, I did nothing, because I didn't think there was really anything I could do. I was largely ignorant of how politics worked, and so I just assumed that it was something beyond me.

That didn't stop me from paying more and more attention to what was going on, however. Over the years, I've spent considerable time observing the many recorded Congressional hearings on many committees, regarding various pieces of legislation that could potentially change the state of affairs in the United States. I've listened closely to different Congress members as they argued their points. I've read the direct texts of many of the bills being proposed, as well as consulted a variety of opinions on them to gather different perspectives. And, perhaps most importantly, I've spoken with people and kept in touch over time to see what kinds of real effects these laws were having on individuals, whether directly by virtue of their wording or as a result of unintended side effects with other laws.

As it turns out, the problem of greed and mismanagement I've seen in my professional life wasn't isolated to just affecting ordinary Americans' standard of living. It was also affecting the financial state of our entire country.

I can't stress enough how I saw firsthand the way certain laws, passed with the intent of boosting employment and wages, instead led to increased stock buybacks and raises in executive / administrative compensation. Or how I watched continuous reductions in various taxes and regulations lead to large companies experiencing the largest rates of growth and profitability in American history, all while ordinary Americans were left behind with nothing to show for the 'trickle down' effect. After years of paying close attention, I'm confident in saying that the vast majority of laws passed to benefit the working and middle classes, in actuality, did next to nothing for them. Instead, they benefited the wealthiest individuals and the most profitable companies to a far, far greater extent. But, what's perhaps most frightening of all is that these legislative actions came with a heavy cost: sending our Federal debt surging to record heights at record speeds.

When a country's debt gets too high for it to pay off, there are really only two options to fix the issue: renegotiate the debt, or print off massive amounts of money to 'pay' the loans down. In the first option, other countries are less likely to lend further money because they know that they aren't going to see the return on those loans that they'd like. In the second option, other countries are way, <b>way</b> less likely to lend any money at all because the currency they're being paid with is being devalued. What's worse, printing money like that also causes insane levels of inflation. Americans who weren't struggling before will suddenly find themselves struggling because of the incredible surges in costs. And Americans who were already struggling before will almost certainly find themselves going under.

I don't want that to happen.

<h2>The Point</h2>

It doesen't matter that I'm financially stable now. It doesn't matter that I'll still be financially stable, even if inflation were to go completely through the roof. Because no matter how good my own situation is, I <b>can't</b> turn my back on everyone else. I <b>can't</b> look away from the people who are still struggling and giving it everything they've got to get to <b>some</b> measure of stability. I also can't turn away from those who have worked themselves to the bone for far, far longer than I did and are still only just barely at where I am now. People who, unlike me, would be sent right back to fighting to survive if our country's rampant spending isn't brought under control soon. People who can't just casually pick up $60+ hourly contract work to account for the entire Federal government defaulting on its debts.

There's a colossal economic disaster looming over the horizon, and if it hits, it will hit nearly <b>everybody</b>, and hit them <b>hard</b>. Congress has demonstrated that they aren't willing to even come close to balancing the budget. Not in any way that will meaningfully prevent it. That includes Nathaniel Moran, our current Representative, who has unfortunately voted repeatedly and consistently to raise spending (and thus, our deficit) by even more. A budget that's already out-of-balance can't be balanced by causing net <b>increases</b> to spending. And it <b>especially</b> can't be balanced if the only cuts being made are <b>small cuts to programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Veteran's Affairs</b>; programs that disproportionately <b>provide way, way more value to Americans than they actually cost the taxpayers</b>. 

I'm not here to become a career politician. I'm not here for attention or publicity. I just want to fix a couple serious problems that will affect everyone in this country, including my neighbors here in the Texas 1st Congressional District. And maybe, hopefully, leave the political space a little cleaner than I found it, in the process.
