---
layout: post
title: How I'm Running
description: Progress comes from work<br /> One step at a time
image: assets/images/the-movement.jpg
nav-menu: true
---

<header class="major">
  <h2>Money and Politics</h2>
</header>

A big political truthism is that money wins political campaigns. Establishment parties bankrolled by the largest corporations and the richest individuals blow hundreds of thousands of dollars every election cycle on advertisements and consultants. They orchestrate grand publicity campaigns that are, in theory, expertly designed to sway voters. According to common wisdom, candidates who don't raise obscene amounts of money simply don't have a chance... right?

Except, there's a funny little 'gotcha' to all of this: the relationship between money and elections is a little complicated. Based on research, money seems to <a href="https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/money-and-elections-a-complicated-love-story/">merely predict where support is, rather than actually be the cause of election victories</a>. America's political demographics have also shifted over the past decade. About 53% of registered voters today aren't registered under either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party. Nearly <a href="https://news.gallup.com/poll/467897/party-preferences-evenly-split-2022-shift-gop.aspx">41% of Americans outright identify themselves as independents</a>. What's more, the 2024 election cycle saw Dan Osborn, a complete newcomer in Nebraska running as an independent on a worker-centered platform, <a href="https://inthesetimes.com/article/labor-union-working-class-dan-osborn-nebraska">nearly take an incumbent's seat in the Senate race</a>.

Our political landscape is constantly shifting. Resonating with voters is what matters, and there's <a href="https://www.politico.com/news/2024/02/15/political-ad-effectiveness-study-00141622">no way to know in advance</a> what kinds of ads will sway them. Thus, no amount of money can 'buy' an election, by itself.

Far more important than raw money is the relevance of a candidate's platform, their ability to connect with voters, and the spread of their message. The reason political winners tend to have huge amounts of fundings is that big donors are good at identifying the stronger candidates. That allows them to throw money at them to gain favors in Congress later. The thing is, I'm not interested in letting the rich and powerful gain even the illusion of influence over me. Rather than raise loads of money to splurge on fancy dinners, wasteful fundraisers, or those incredibly annoying TV ads that flood the air on election season, I intend to use it to facilitate my time spent traveling the district and engaging with as many of you as humanly possible. I intend to spend it as frugally as I can, maximizing the value out of every dollar entrusted to me so I can do one thing, and one thing only: give everyone in this district a chance to get to know me and my platform.

Millions of Americans, myself included, are sick of 'business-as-usual' politics. What's more, I have a novel method of running for office that doesn't risk 'splitting the ticket' if there are several other promising candidates besides me. And it relies on the fact that people who believe enough in a candidate to donate, <b>even just $5</b>, are overwhelmingly likely to follow through and vote for them.

<header class="major">
  <h2>The Strategy</h2>
</header>

The long and short of it: donations of $5 or more show that someone is serious enough to follow through and vote for a candidate. I'll publicly list the total number of individual contributions I've received at all times. If there's ever a risk of me 'splitting the ticket', I will give all my supporters the chance to vote whether I step down if I don't have enough by a critical point in the 2026 race. I'll also pledge to distribute excess campaign funds to the remaining candidates in proportion to the way my supporters ask for. This gives you all the opportunity to back a candidate like me without worrying about whether your votes and money will be wasted. Because I'll be straight with you: I'm not interested in wasting anyone's time, money, or voting power. If we don't have ranked choice voting in America by law, then I'll run in such a way as to effectively make it possible with me. Protecting peoples' voting power means that much to me.

If you're interested in the mathematic details that make this strategy work, read on.

Historically, voter turnout in Texas 1st Congressional District has been about 250,000 voters. The halfway point is 125,000 votes, making it anyone's game. Probability-wise, a candidate who reaches 150,000 votes is almost guaranteed to win. It's also well-documented that voters who donate to a particular candidate's campaign are overwhelmingly likely to vote for them on election day. Since studies show that <a href="https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2017/05/17/5-facts-about-u-s-political-donations/">between 7% to 28% of voters donate</a> to individual candidates at all, we can choose a reasonably difficult contribution rate of 20% to say that I probably need around 30,000 individual contributions to win. This is very much above previous performance, as our district's current Representative won with only <a href="https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?committee_id=C00796086&two_year_transaction_period=2022&line_number=F3-11AI&data_type=processed">860 individual itemized contributions</a>, of which <a href="https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?data_type=processed&committee_id=C00796086&contributor_name=WINRED&two_year_transaction_period=2022&line_number=F3-11AI">235 of them</a> came from the same source: <a href="https://winred.com/">WinRed</a>.

Thus, my goal is to reach 20,000 <b>unique</b> individual donations by August 1st, 2026, which is 2/3 of the way into the election year. And they don't need to be large at all: even just $5 would be more than enough to prove that a donor was serious and believed in this campaign enough to vote for me. By that point, I would already have almost reached the statistical requirement for a competitive bid against Nathaniel Moran, and would be 2/3 of the way to a statistical 'guaranteed' win. Those of you following these developments would then be able to rest assured by that point that, regardless of actual funds generated, there's enough support behind me to go through with your initial feelings about me and vote for me on election day. And remember: if I don't reach that goal in time, those of you who contributed will absolutely have the chance to vote whether I step down and disburse the unspent campaign funds to the remaining candidates, in proportion with how you choose.

Money matters, to an extent. But, belief and confidence from voters <b>matters so much more</b>. That's the kind of campaign I intend to run. Not one based on raking in hundreds of thousands of dollars to try and trick people about my actual viability, or to try and badmouth my opponents, or to enjoy an extravagent fundraiser-paid vacation throughout the campaign season. Rather, I want to run a campaign based on simply meeting with as many of my neighbors here as I can and finding out whether they like what I have to offer. Nothing more, and nothing less. And if they can provide enough funding to my team to pay off the campaign expenses, even better. To that end, I'll never ask anyone to donate more than once. No matter how many times they donate, they can only vote for me once. <b>Money</b> isn't the point: rather, it's <b>inspiration</b>. And that comes from people, not cash. Besides, at $5 per donation? That means 20,000 donors will be contributing a total of $100,000 at a minimum. That would be plenty to cover my frequent traveling across the district and the expenses of my small staff team.

So, now you know exactly what I plan on doing, plain for all to see. Because I'll keep these numbers posted publicly, you can rest assured that you'll know exactly how competitive and viable of a candidate I really am throughout the whole election season. And hopefully, that only bolsters belief in what I'm doing even further. 

<header class="major">
  <h2>A Closer Mathematical Look At Money And Campaign Victory</h2>
</header>

This is mostly for the math enjoyers, like me. If numbers stress you out or bore you, you can skip this. It's just a closer look at how statistics lead to money's ability to predict campaign wins and losses.

To better understand exactly how 'money predicts successful candidates', let's take the 2024 election cycle as an example. 369 races for the House of Representatives took place; that means each race had 369 winners and 369 losers. Of the 369 losing candidates, 79 of them (about 21%) didn't spend a single dollar. The only conceivable reason for this is that they didn't even bother trying. Also of the 369 losing candidates, another 133 of them (about 36%) didn't even spend a full $100,000. If we consider that only <a href="https://bipartisanpolicy.org/download/?file=/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Trends-in-Campaign-Financing-1980-2016.-Zachary-Albert..pdf">51% of all campaign spending</a> is covered by individual donations, this means these candidates likely pulled around $50,000 in individual contributions. Put another way: if we assume that each donor was only allowed to donate $2 to a candidate (a very unlikely scenario), this means that 57% (nearly 3/5) of the losing candidates couldn't muster the paid support of even 25,000 people in their district.

Why does this matter? Simple: the average Congressional District in the United States has a population of 760,000 people. Given voter turnouts hovering around <a href="https://ballotpedia.org/Voter_turnout_in_United_States_elections">50% in recent elections</a>, only about 380,000 will actually vote. If we're making the (very unlikely) assumption that every $2 equates to 1 donor, then it makes perfect sense as to why these candidates lost. Those 25,000 donating voters only make up about 6.6% of the total 390,000 participating voters. Following the harder-to-meet 20% 'voters-vs-donors' rate, that translates to roughly 33% voter support. And that's being incredibly generous in our assumptions about converting money to donors. Breaking down the candidates who lost, 21% of them didn't even try (not even $1 spent), and another 36% of them just didn't resonate with voters. This is verified by reviewing the election results for these races, which generally show between a 20-point and 40-point difference between the winning and losing candidates.

Looking at this example, we can see very easily how money was more predictive than causative. This all reinforces the core idea behind my strategy here. By spreading the word through as many effective media sources as possible, I can explain my ideas and let the <b>contribution count</b> (even if it's all in the form of $5 contributions) be proof of my performance and viability, rather than the misleading variable of total funds raised.
