---
layout: post
title: How We Can Succeed
description: From the smallest of seeds<br /> The most bountiful fruits
image: assets/images/the-movement.jpg
nav-menu: true
---

<h2>Money and Politics</h2>

They say money wins political campaigns. That's just common sense... isn't it? Establishment groups bankrolled by the largest corporations and the richest individuals blow hundreds of thousands of dollars every election cycle on advertisements and consultants to orchestrate grand publicity campaigns that are, in theory, expertly designed to sway voters. According to common wisdom, independents and third parties simply don't have a chance because they can't possibly raise the funds necessary to compete with the two major parties... right?

Except, there's a funny little 'gotcha' to all of this: the relationship between money and elections is a little complicated. Based on research, money seems to <a href="https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/money-and-elections-a-complicated-love-story/">merely predict where support is, rather than actually be the cause of election victories</a>. America's political demographics have also shifted over the past decade. About 53% of registered voters today aren't registered under either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party. Nearly <a href="https://news.gallup.com/poll/467897/party-preferences-evenly-split-2022-shift-gop.aspx">41% of Americans outright identify themselves as independents</a>. What's more, the 2024 election cycle saw Dan Osborn, a complete newcomer in Nebraska running as an independent on a worker-centered platform, <a href="https://inthesetimes.com/article/labor-union-working-class-dan-osborn-nebraska">nearly take an incumbent's seat in the Senate race</a>.

The reality is clear: people care more about a candidate's policies and skills than they do about how much money they can pull in from PACs, lobbyists, and rich donors.

The truth is, money in campaigns is less of an actual force multiplier, and more of a fear tactic or psychological trick. Its primary purpose is to lure people into thinking a race is won or lost before the votes are even cast. Far more important than raw money is the relevance of a candidate's platform, their ability to connect with voters, and the spread of their message. Usually, big donors are good at identifying the stronger candidate so that they can throw money at them to gain favors in Congress later. I'm not interested in letting the rich and powerful gain even the illusion of influence over me, though. Rather than raise loads of money to waste on fancy dinners, wasteful fundraisers, or those incredibly annoying TV ads that flood the air on election season, I intend to use it to facilitate my time spent traveling the district and engaging with as many of you as humanly possible. I intend to spend it as frugally as I can, maximizing the value out of every dollar entrusted to my team to do one thing, and one thing only: give everyone in this district a chance to get to know me and my platform.

Millions of Americans, myself included, are sick of 'business-as-usual' politics. I have a solid, effective method of running as an independent that doesn't risk 'splitting the ticket' at all, which is another way of saying 'wasting votes'. And it relies on the fact that people who believe enough in a candidate to make a donation to them, <b>even just $1</b>, are overwhelmingly likely to follow through and vote for that candidate.

<h2>The Strategy</h2>

The long and short of it: I'll publicly list the total number of vote pledges I receive at all times, and will give all my supporters the chance to vote whether I step down if I don't have enough by a critical point in the 2026 race. I'll also pledge to distribute excess campaign funds to the remaining candidates in proportion to the way my supporters ask for. This gives you all the opportunity to back a candidate like me without worrying about whether your votes and money will be wasted. Because I'll be straight with you: I'm not interested in wasting anyone's time, money, or voting power. If we don't have ranked choice voting in America by law, then I'll run in such a way as to effectively make it possible with me. That's the kind of conviction I possess.

If you're interested in the details that make this strategy work, read on.

Historically, voter turnout in Texas 1st Congressional District has been about 250,000 voters. The halfway point is 125,000 votes, making it anyone's game. Probability-wise, a candidate who reaches 150,000 votes is almost guaranteed to win. It's also well-known that voters who donate to a particular candidate's campaign are overwhelmingly likely to vote for them on election day. Since studies show that <a href="https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2017/05/17/5-facts-about-u-s-political-donations/">between 7% to 28% of voters donate</a> to individual candidates at all, we can choose a reasonably difficult goal at a 20% contribution rate to say that 30,000 individual contributions are needed to prove sufficient voter support in any particular candidate. This is very much above previous candidate performance in this district, as our current representative won with only <a href="https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?committee_id=C00796086&two_year_transaction_period=2022&line_number=F3-11AI&data_type=processed">860 individual itemized contributions</a>, of which <a href="https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?data_type=processed&committee_id=C00796086&contributor_name=WINRED&two_year_transaction_period=2022&line_number=F3-11AI">235 of them</a> came from the same source: <a href="https://winred.com/">WinRed</a>.

Thus, my goal is to reach 15,000 individual donations by June 1st, 2026, which is the halfway point in the election year. And they don't need to be large at all: even just $1 would be more than enough to prove that a donor was serious and believed in this campaign enough to vote for me. By that point, I would be halfway to reaching the numbers for a guaranteed win, and well past the halfway point to just a competitive bid against other candidates. Those of you following these developments would then be able to rest assured by that point that, regardless of actual funds generated, there's enough support behind me to go through with your initial pledge and vote for me on election day. And remember: if I don't reach that goal in time, those of you who contributed can always vote to have me step down and disburse the unspent campaign funds to the remaining candidates, in proportion with how you choose.

Money matters, to an extent. But, belief and confidence from voters <b>matters so much more</b>. That's the kind of campaign I intend to run. Not one based on raking in hundreds of thousands of dollars to try and trick people about my actual viability, or to try and badmouth my opponents, or to enjoy extravagent fundraiser events throughout the campaign season. Rather, I want to run a campaign based on simply meeting with as many of my neighbors here as I can and finding out whether they like what I have to offer. Nothing more, and nothing less. And if they can provide enough funding to my team to pay off the campaign expenses, even better.

<h2>Some Extra Context For Math Nerds Like Me</h2>

To understand in more detail the numbers behind the idea that 'money predicts successful candidates', let's take the 2024 election cycle for example. 369 races for the House of Representatives took place; that means each race had 369 winners and 369 losers. Of the 369 losing candidates, 79 of them (about 21%) didn't spend a single dollar. The only conceivable reason for this is that they didn't even bother trying. Also of the 369 losing candidates, 133 of them (about 36%) didn't even spend a full $100,000. Put another way: if we assume that each donor was only allowed to donate $1 to a candidate, this means that 57% (nearly 3/5) of the losing candidates couldn't muster the support of even 100,000 people. Why does this matter? Simple: the average Congressional District in the United States has a population of 760,000 people. If we're making the (very unlikely) assumption that every $1 equates to 1 donor, then it makes perfect sense as to why these candidates lost. They couldn't even get 13% of their district's support, in the best of assumptions.

The vast, vast majority of these losing candidates were from one of the two existing establishment parties. 21% of them didn't even try (not even $1 spent). Another 36% of them just didn't resonate with voters. This is verified by reviewing the election results for these races, which generally show between a 30-point and 50-point lead between the winning and losing candidates. In these cases, we can very confidently say that money was more predictive than causative.

That's the core idea behind my strategy here. By spreading the word through as many effective media sources as possible, I can explain my ideas and let the <b>contribution count</b> (even if it's all in the form of $1 contributions) be predictive of my performance, rather than the misleading variable of total funds raised. Because it'll all be posted publicly, you can rest assured that, throughout the whole election season, you know exactly how competitive and viable of a candidate I really am.
